#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck column:1
Externalities	Asymmetric information	Asymmeifiric information refers to situations where buyers and sellers do not have equal access to information.
Externalities	Adverse selection	 refers to situations where one party in a transaction has more information about the quality of the product being sold than the other party.
Externalities	Moral hazard	 refers to situations where one party takes risks, but does not face the full costs of these risks because the full costs are borne
Externalities	Income inequality	 means that everyone in society receive the same amount of income.
Externalities	Aggregate demand	 is the total quantity of goods and services that all buyers in an economy want to purchase over a particular time period, at different prices, ceteris paribus.
Externalities	short run	In the , prices of resources (especially wages) are fixed.
Externalities	Stagnation	 is a prolonged period of slow economic growth usually accompanied by high unemployment.
Externalities	recessionary or inflationary gaps	Changes in aggregate supply do not lead to .
Externalities	LRAS curve	DP remains constant at the level of potential output (Ye) and the 
Externalities	Oligopolies	 is a state of limited competition, in which a market is shared by a
Externalities	Spore capacity	Spare capacity refers to physical capital (machines, equipment, etc) that firms have available but do not use.
Externalities	Moneiary policy	Monetary policy involves management of money supply and interest rate to achieve macroeconomic objectives.
Externalities	Interest rate	 is the cost of borrowing or reward for saving.
Externalities	PPP	 is the amount of a country’s currency that is needed to buy the same quantity of local goods and services that can be bought with USS$1 in the United States.
Externalities	Screening	 is a method used by the party with the limited information - i.e. the buyer.
Externalities	Signalling	 is a method used by the party that has more information to convince the buyers that the product being sold is of good quality. G
Externalities	LRAS	 shows the total quantity of goods and services produced in the flexible resource price period, a diferent price ave s, ceteris paribus.
Externalities	Real interest rate	 is the interest rate that has been corrected for inflation.
Externalities	nominal rate of interest	The  is the market rate that prevails at any moment in time.
Externalities	Economic development	 refers to a process that leads to improved standards of living for a population as a whole.
Externalities	Economic growth	 refers to increases in output and incomes over time, often measured on a per capita basis.
Externalities	leftward shift	A  means that AD decreases for any price level = i.e. fewer output is demanded
Externalities	rightward shift	A  means that AD increases for any price level - i.e. more output is demanded
Externalities	SRAS	 shows the relationship between the price level and the quantity of real output produced by firms when resource prices (especially wages) do not change, ceteris paribus.
Externalities	Aggregate supply	overs particular tne period at efferent price levels.
