#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck column:1
Deck	Markef failure	Market failure refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
Deck	Common pooi resources	Common pool resources are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
Deck	tragedy of the commons	The  is an economic problem in which every individual has an incentive to consume a resource at the expense of every other individual with no way to exclude anyone from consuming.
Deck	Sustainability	 refers to the ability of something to be preserved and maintained over time.
Deck	Fossil fuels	 are non-renewable resources as they take millions of years to form and accelerating overuse is leading to their rapid depletion.
Deck	Taxation	 can be used where a per-unit tax on a good is imposed to reduce the supply.
Deck	carbon tax	The  is a tax per unit of carbon emissions of fossil fuels.
Deck	Asymmetric information	Asymmeifiric information refers to situations where buyers and sellers do not have equal access to information.
Deck	Tradeable permis	Tradeable permits are a policy involving permits to pollute issued to firms by a government or an international body.
Deck	Collective selffgovernance	Collective self-governance refers to a solution to the use of common pool resources where the users take control of the resources and use them in a sustainable way.
Deck	Demerit goods	 are products where MSB < MPB upon consumption.
Deck	short run	In the , prices of resources (especially wages) are fixed.
Deck	Adverse selection	 refers to situations where one party in a transaction has more information about the quality of the product being sold than the other party.
Deck	Stagnation	 is a prolonged period of slow economic growth usually accompanied by high unemployment.
Deck	recessionary or inflationary gaps	Changes in aggregate supply do not lead to .
Deck	LRAS curve	DP remains constant at the level of potential output (Ye) and the 
Deck	Oligopolies	 is a state of limited competition, in which a market is shared by a
Deck	Spore capacity	Spare capacity refers to physical capital (machines, equipment, etc) that firms have available but do not use.
Deck	Moneiary policy	Monetary policy involves management of money supply and interest rate to achieve macroeconomic objectives.
Deck	Interest rate	 is the cost of borrowing or reward for saving.
Deck	PPP	 is the amount of a country’s currency that is needed to buy the same quantity of local goods and services that can be bought with USS$1 in the United States.
Deck	Screening	 is a method used by the party with the limited information - i.e. the buyer.
Deck	Common pool resources	 are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
Deck	Aggregate supply	overs particular tne period at efferent price levels.
Deck	leftward shift	A  means that SRAS decreases for any price level = i.e. lower quantity of real GDP.
Deck	rightward shift	A  means that SRAS increases for any price level - i.e. larger quantity of real GDP.
Deck	LRAS	 shows the total quantity of goods and services produced in the flexible resource price period, a diferent price ave s, ceteris paribus.
Deck	Aggregate demand	 is the total quantity of goods and services that all buyers in an economy want to purchase over a particular time period, at different prices, ceteris paribus.
Deck	Marginal private cost fMPCf	Marginal private cost (MPC) refer to the cost to producers of producing one more unit of a good.
Deck	Marginal private benefit fMPBf	Marginal private benefit (MPB) refer to benefits to consumers from consuming one more unit of a good or service.
Deck	Marginal social cost fMSCf	Marginal social cost (MSC) refer to costs to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
Deck	Marginal social benefit fMSBf	Marginal social benefit (MSB) refer to benefits to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
Deck	Real interest rate	 is the interest rate that has been corrected for inflation.
Deck	nominal rate of interest	The  is the market rate that prevails at any moment in time.
Deck	Economic development	 refers to a process that leads to improved standards of living for a population as a whole.
Deck	Economic growth	 refers to increases in output and incomes over time, often measured on a per capita basis.
Deck	Externalities	 occur when the actions of consumers or producers give rise to negative or positive spillover effects on third parties.
Deck	Market failure	 refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
Deck	SRAS	 shows the relationship between the price level and the quantity of real output produced by firms when resource prices (especially wages) do not change, ceteris paribus.
