#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck column:1
definition	Marke? failure	Market failure refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
definition	Common pooi resources	Common pool resources are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
definition	tragedy of the commons	The  is an economic problem in which every individual has an incentive to consume a resource at the expense of every other individual with no way to exclude anyone from consuming.
definition	Sustainability	 refers to the ability of something to be preserved and maintained over time.
definition	Fossil fuels	 are non-renewable resources as they take millions of years to form and accelerating overuse is leading to their rapid depletion.
definition	Taxation	 can be used where a per-unit tax on a good is imposed to reduce the supply.
definition	carbon tax	The  is a tax per unit of carbon emissions of fossil fuels.
definition	Asymmetric information	Asymmeifiric information refers to situations where buyers and sellers do not have equal access to information.
definition	Tradeable permis	Tradeable permits are a policy involving permits to pollute issued to firms by a government or an international body.
definition	Collective self-governance	 refers to a solution to the use of common pool resources where the users take control of the resources and use them in a sustainable way.
definition	Demerit goods	 are products where MSB < MPB upon consumption.
definition	short run	In the , prices of resources (especially wages) are fixed.
definition	Adverse selection	 refers to situations where one party in a transaction has more information about the quality of the product being sold than the other party.
definition	Stagnation	 is a prolonged period of slow economic growth usually accompanied by high unemployment.
definition	recessionary or inflationary gaps	Changes in aggregate supply do not lead to .
definition	LRAS curve	DP remains constant at the level of potential output (Ye) and the 
definition	Oligopolies	 is a state of limited competition, in which a market is shared by a
definition	Spore capacity	Spare capacity refers to physical capital (machines, equipment, etc) that firms have available but do not use.
definition	Moneiary policy	Monetary policy involves management of money supply and interest rate to achieve macroeconomic objectives.
definition	Interest rate	 is the cost of borrowing or reward for saving.
definition	PPP	 is the amount of a country’s currency that is needed to buy the same quantity of local goods and services that can be bought with USS$1 in the United States.
definition	Screening	 is a method used by the party with the limited information - i.e. the buyer.
definition	Common pool resources	 are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
definition	Aggregate supply	overs particular tne period at efferent price levels.
definition	leftward shift	A  means that SRAS decreases for any price level = i.e. lower quantity of real GDP.
definition	rightward shift	A  means that SRAS increases for any price level - i.e. larger quantity of real GDP.
definition	LRAS	 shows the total quantity of goods and services produced in the flexible resource price period, a diferent price ave s, ceteris paribus.
definition	Aggregate demand	 is the total quantity of goods and services that all buyers in an economy want to purchase over a particular time period, at different prices, ceteris paribus.
definition	Marginal private cost (MPC)	 refer to the cost to producers of producing one more unit of a good.
definition	Marginal private benefit (MPB)	 refer to benefits to consumers from consuming one more unit of a good or service.
definition	Marginal social cost (MSC)	 refer to costs to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
definition	Marginal social benefit (MSB)	 refer to benefits to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
definition	Real interest rate	 is the interest rate that has been corrected for inflation.
definition	nominal rate of interest	The  is the market rate that prevails at any moment in time.
definition	Economic development	 refers to a process that leads to improved standards of living for a population as a whole.
definition	Economic growth	 refers to increases in output and incomes over time, often measured on a per capita basis.
definition	Externalities	 occur when the actions of consumers or producers give rise to negative or positive spillover effects on third parties.
definition	Market failure	 refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
definition	SRAS	 shows the relationship between the price level and the quantity of real output produced by firms when resource prices (especially wages) do not change, ceteris paribus.
