#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck column:1
DEF	Markefffailure	Market failure refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
DEF	Commonfpooifresources	Common pool resources are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
DEF	tragedyfoffthefcommons	The tragedy of the commons is an economic problem in which every individual has an incentive to consume a resource at the expense of every other individual with no way to exclude anyone from consuming.
DEF	Sustainability	 refers to the ability of something to be preserved and maintained over time.
DEF	Fossilffuels	Fossil fuels are non-renewable resources as they take millions of years to form and accelerating overuse is leading to their rapid depletion.
DEF	Taxation	 can be used where a per-unit tax on a good is imposed to reduce the supply.
DEF	carbonftax	The carbon tax is a tax per unit of carbon emissions of fossil fuels.
DEF	Asymmetricfinformation	Asymmeifiric information refers to situations where buyers and sellers do not have equal access to information.
DEF	Tradeablefpermis	Tradeable permits are a policy involving permits to pollute issued to firms by a government or an international body.
DEF	Collectivefselffgovernance	Collective self-governance refers to a solution to the use of common pool resources where the users take control of the resources and use them in a sustainable way.
DEF	Demeritfgoods	Demerit goods are products where MSB < MPB upon consumption.
DEF	shortfrun	In the short run, prices of resources (especially wages) are fixed.
DEF	Adversefselection	Adverse selection refers to situations where one party in a transaction has more information about the quality of the product being sold than the other party.
DEF	Stagnation	 is a prolonged period of slow economic growth usually accompanied by high unemployment.
DEF	recessionaryforfinflationaryfgaps	Changes in aggregate supply do not lead to recessionary or inflationary gaps.
DEF	LRASfcurve	DP remains constant at the level of potential output (Ye) and the LRAS curve
DEF	Oligopolies	 is a state of limited competition, in which a market is shared by a
DEF	Sporefcapacity	Spare capacity refers to physical capital (machines, equipment, etc) that firms have available but do not use.
DEF	Moneiaryfpolicy	Monetary policy involves management of money supply and interest rate to achieve macroeconomic objectives.
DEF	Interestfrate	Interest rate is the cost of borrowing or reward for saving.
DEF	PPP	 is the amount of a country’s currency that is needed to buy the same quantity of local goods and services that can be bought with USS$1 in the United States.
DEF	Screening	 is a method used by the party with the limited information - i.e. the buyer.
DEF	Commonfpoolfresources	Common pool resources are not owned by anyone, do not have a price and are available for anyone to use without payment or restrictions.
DEF	Aggregatefsupply	overs particular tne period at efferent price levels.
DEF	leftwardfshift	A leftward shift means that SRAS decreases for any price level = i.e. lower quantity of real GDP.
DEF	rightwardfshift	A rightward shift means that SRAS increases for any price level - i.e. larger quantity of real GDP.
DEF	LRAS	 shows the total quantity of goods and services produced in the flexible resource price period, a diferent price ave s, ceteris paribus.
DEF	Aggregatefdemand	Aggregate demand is the total quantity of goods and services that all buyers in an economy want to purchase over a particular time period, at different prices, ceteris paribus.
DEF	MarginalfprivatefcostffMPCf	Marginal private cost (MPC) refer to the cost to producers of producing one more unit of a good.
DEF	MarginalfprivatefbenefitffMPBf	Marginal private benefit (MPB) refer to benefits to consumers from consuming one more unit of a good or service.
DEF	MarginalfsocialfcostffMSCf	Marginal social cost (MSC) refer to costs to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
DEF	MarginalfsocialfbenefitffMSBf	Marginal social benefit (MSB) refer to benefits to society from consuming one more unit of a good.
DEF	Realfinterestfrate	Real interest rate is the interest rate that has been corrected for inflation.
DEF	nominalfratefoffinterest	The nominal rate of interest is the market rate that prevails at any moment in time.
DEF	Economicfdevelopment	Economic development refers to a process that leads to improved standards of living for a population as a whole.
DEF	Economicfgrowth	Economic growth refers to increases in output and incomes over time, often measured on a per capita basis.
DEF	Externalities	 occur when the actions of consumers or producers give rise to negative or positive spillover effects on third parties.
DEF	Marketffailure	Market failure refers to the failure of the market to allocate resources efficiently.
DEF	SRAS	 shows the relationship between the price level and the quantity of real output produced by firms when resource prices (especially wages) do not change, ceteris paribus.
